# Documentation
  - VERPAT wiki-based [documentation](https://github.com/gregorbj/VisionEval/wiki/VERPAT-Inputs-and-Outputs) complete
  - Need to add advice for actually coding up scenarios, reviewing results, etc, i.e. more like a tutorial, which we're planning to do in the next amendment

# New issues
  - [#183](https://github.com/gregorbj/VisionEval/issues/183) - We decided to tie initialization features to some module.  We're not going to do this right now since it requires framework revisions, which are low priority right now.  Let's revisit under the pooled funds.
  - [#186](https://github.com/gregorbj/VisionEval/issues/186)

# Pull request
  - RSG and [NYSERDA](https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/) added support for [EVs to VERPAT](https://github.com/gregorbj/VisionEval/wiki/VERPAT-EV-Module)
  - What's our [contribution review process](https://github.com/gregorbj/VisionEval/wiki/Example-Review) for this [pull request](https://github.com/gregorbj/VisionEval/pull/185)?

# Other news
  - Started on [GreenSTEP conversion](https://github.com/gregorbj/VisionEval/wiki/VE-State-Kickoff) under ODOT project
  - Done with AASHTO first amendment other than peer exchange and support tasks, and now starting on [user experience](https://github.com/gregorbj/VisionEval/wiki/VE-User-Experience) amendment
  - Any updates on the Peer Exchange discussion? 
  - Volpe and RSG submitting a session to [Scenario Planning Conference](http://www.scenarioplanning.io/conferences/) in September
  - Anything to discuss for our [ITM session](http://www.cvent.com/events/7th-trb-innovations-in-travel-modeling-conference/event-summary-4bb3bd199b894528aba85ddc0102452f.aspx) next week?