VisionEval is a collaborative project to merge the successful GreenSTEP family of strategic planning
tools into an open-source framework.  As a result, there are three separate models available to VisionEval users:
  - **VERSPM** - The RSPM (Regional Strategic Planning Model) was developed by ODOT as an offshoot of the GreenSTEP model to
support the preparation of metropolitan area scenario plans. The name reflects a broadening of the policies, beyond state statutory requirements.  This model operates at the zonal level (i.e. inputs and outputs are zone-based).
  - **VERPAT** - The RPAT (Rapid Policy Analysis Tool) was developed under the federal Strategic Highway Research Program (SHRP2).  The model was developed to help planners evaluate the potential effect of growth policies on regional travel. Portions of the GreenSTEP model were used in RPAT, but substantial revisions were made to the code, including use of land use place type categories.  This model operates at the place type level for the entire region (i.e. inputs and outputs are either region or place-type based).
  - **VEState** - The VEState model is the re-implementation of the GreenSTEP model.  It was developed by the Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT) to assist in the development of plans to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from light-duty vehicles to meet Oregon State statutory goals. GreenSTEP models the effects of many different factors (e.g. transportation supply, prices, land use, etc.) on household vehicle ownership and use, and the effects on emissions, traffic congestion, etc.  This model operates at the zonal level (i.e. inputs and outputs are zone-based).